Many times our customers in the corporate world,
versus consulting, think your service is infinite.
They may ask and ask for more.
be sure you spend time with each key customer and
explain the scope of your team, how many resources your team has,
maybe your budget and other attributes,
and also talk about how you can work together to meet their needs.
For example, if you can transfer some budget to me,
I can bring on an extra contractor to help out.
Resources, your resources,
people and maybe some discretionary budget are certainly limited.
You can only do so much with that.
For example, show your customer your projects and your activities,
like we discussed in the module aligning IT to the business.
Walk through what is in the priority of item 1 and
item 2 buckets and the backlog.
Discuss that with more resources you can do more or you can move the
schedule out or you can take something off the list,
that is move it to the backlog and maybe make room for a
new item in priority 1 or priority 2.
Get them to have an appreciation of your constraints and get them
involved in helping manage your resources with you.
Time of day, some of us have really crazy hours.
Figure out what coverage you think you need to cover your
customer's expectations of support.
For example, if you need to have coverage from 6:00 AM to 6:00 PM,
lay out the schedule with your team and be sure your
customers know what is in the coverage range.
You may also have to publish an on call list of numbers
and names to call on for the off hours.
Now every customer is different, but be careful and cautious,
you don't want to get your team all burned out with crazy hours.
So you'll want to manage your team very well and
integrate that with your customer's needs to.
Negotiate with your customers and see if you can give
them what they need and document it.
And also help manage and take care of your team as
well so they don't have burnout.
Demand management,
this is the method for managing or the term for managing
all the work that comes into your team through a common or
central focal point or process.
I will talk more about this in another module because it is so important
to managing customer expectations and your workload.
So at this point in the course just note that you need a demand management
process and we will pick up on it again in more detail.
Okay, here's a quote, barring the grammar for a moment,
"man's got to know his limitations", a Clint Eastwood quote which I really like.
There are in fact limitations and your customer probably truly knows it,
but you're going to have to communicate clearly and make sure he or she
has that deep appreciation that you can only do so much.
Okay so how do you say no?
That can be a very difficult thing.
Let's see a few tips on how best to say no.
Now let's talk about timelines, software has bugs, we all know that.
But bugs in our software programs can be irritating,
costly, and frustrating to your customers.
So whatever timeline you provide, be sure you can meet it.
I would rather say 2 weeks and be done in 10 days than
say 10 days and it take 2 weeks.
You can manage customer expectations by clearly stating
how long any particular task or activity will take and yes
I know things can go wrong.
When you provide a timeline or milestone,
also include assumptions if necessary that if
triggered would affect the schedule.
For example, we have the holiday season and some of my team is taking vacation,
we will need 12 business days to get out the next release,
I will try and add resources but to be safe I can make it in 12 days.
This may help them understand the bigger picture
and help set their expectations.
Also you always want to be realistic.
Now while optimism is an attribute your customer
would likely want to see from you,
you must also remain realistic about solutions,
estimates, and timelines.
While it can be really tough to tell a customer a problem
will take longer than expected to resolve,
it is more important to be realistic than set
expectations that just can't be met.
And if you're in one of those tough spots,
provide more detail if the customer wants it,
about why you need the extra time, focus on quality,
it is hard for a customer to argue with quality.
So the rule of thumb, be realistic,
for example testing the order management system with the
newly integrated ERP system is just turning out to be more
complicated than we thought.
It requires test data to be set up by the order team
and they are a bit shorthanded.
Maybe we can all meet together and see how we can improve the situation.
In other words,
it's not only you and your software team in this case that
is responsible to get the release out,
but also a completely different team that you don't manage
that's providing the right test data,
explaining to your customer the complexities,
again, not just technical but organizational in this case,
helps them understand the bigger picture and helps set their expectations.
Next, remain optimistic.
Always remain positive with a we're going to get this done attitude,
yet be sure to keep the pulse of the customer at all times.
They will know when they may be pushing too hard and you will know if there
is something they've got to just have no matter what.
If you have an honest,
trustworthy relationship with your customer you will be better
equipped emotionally to keep a good dose of optimism.
Remember your team will feed off of your emotions if you are down or depressed,
they may empathize and absorb some of that as well.
You don't want that.
You want them to see you upbeat and optimistic, but grounded in reality.
That is the best mix or blend.
Yep hard to do, but it is very important.
So here's a thought,
maybe you can promise your customers that they will have
immediate and constant access to me and my team,
me being the manager, and that your team will every day work on behalf of them,
supporting their needs, goals and issues.
It's kind of a high level statement that says we're here for you no matter what.
Obviously the devil is in the details,
but if you manage your customer's expectations things will work out quite well.
And lastly, "the optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty",
that's a quote by Winston Churchill.
There are always challenges and difficulties at work.
That's why they call it work.
But each one can have several opportunities to work with new people,
learn new things, accomplish milestones, and just feel good about helping your customers and actually a whole lot more.